a checker we also layer in a commit
component which makes sense this is what
you think you're going to do we're g to
put a commit in there you have to do at
least
this which which is done in SAS more
often and what this was doing was
incenting reps to heavily discount to
get this commit he want to commit but
let me discount this really heavily to
get the customer to commit
contractually they were
unnecessarily giving these major
discounts to get this committed contract
with a customer because we were
incenting it because there was a huge
upfront commission component and like
you said what you incent you get and so
the the reps are doing exactly the right
thing but we were over incenting it so
we we took that we took that specific
component out and we're spiffing on
different things that we do want to see
more of and we're tying the actual bulk
of the compensation more to revenue
realization saster Vans welcome to
another episode of cro confidential
podcast I'm your host Sam blonde uh
delighted to be back with another
incredible episode with an amazing guest
today we have the treat of having a
guest who is in a position that many cro
aspire to be in her position lindsy
scrace is the COO at
Checker she was the cro prior to being
promoted into the co so just incredible
experience at one of the sort of
generational SAS businesses of the last
decade in Checker most recently being
valued around5 billion doar just an
awesome guest in an awesome company
delighted to have you here thank you for
being here Lindsay oh thank you Sam um
excited to be here to to chat with you
and and also just a huge fan of saster
so um it's a pump to be here
amazing okay so we're going to Jump
Right In you joined uh Checker in August
of
2022 as the cro um you joined from a
10year tenure incredible run at another
incredible but much larger business in
Google so you join this is now something
like two years ago join
Checker a pretty large business at the
time that you joined it as cro I want to
talk a little bit about just setting the
stage describe the environment at
Checker when you joined just in terms of
what did the go to market organization
look like and then we're going to talk
from there about some things that you
did to uplevel that
organization yeah and maybe just to
start I'm sure a lot of folks know about
Checker but many might not as well it
it's just at a stage of what Checker is
we're late stage Series E uh to come
focused on um background screening so
think the screens the background checks
employment verifications verifications
you do before you hire someone into your
company and our Founders start in
chucker because they were working at a
delivery startup and they could not on
board workers fast enough like it was
the gig economy needing to get supply is
absolutely critical and this background
check step took weeks if not longer to
get done and so they figured out a way
to do a
get the data themselves and and
streamline incredible the process
incredibly while also making it even
more compliant and more accurate TR that
go to market yeah Cher we got our birth
in the gig economy so door Dash is our
very first
customer 10 years ago and obviously has
grown quite a bit since then and grown
with Checker but we it was critical like
seeing a critical need for Gig companies
where they need to hire quickly and on
board and people are out looking for job
and they want to start that day they
want to start earning that day
and we started with door Dash from there
to ride sharing and other delivery
companies and and have 95% plus of the
gig economy that was like really the
focus of the go market in the early days
and very large customers growing with
them over time in terms of the
organization when I joined we had then
pivoted I can talk about it later to to
Enterprise quite some time ago did not
succeed learned a lot I can talk about
what was learned and then built a self-
serve business and so a lot of the go to
market marketing or focused on self-
serve and then built out our mid-market
team so think a few hundred people most
of the sellers focused on
midmarket Solutions engineering customer
success really important especially with
these very large customers and then pre
and post sales separated
as well that's that's a high level no
super helpful and so then what I'm
hearing is a go to market organization
of a few hundred people and then the
business is segmented in terms of
product L growth
or companies that are acquired and
onboarded without a sales rep those
probably Orient towards the the sort of
like smaller size in terms of a company
and then there are at least a couple
segments in terms of the folks that
you're selling into midmarket
only maybe helpful context to set there
is something around what were the cycle
times for most of those folks and and
new customers and then how do you make
money I hear background checks and I
hear potentially a usage based model it
also could be a SAS based model so just
a little bit deeper in terms of how you
price yeah absolutely so yeah on the low
end in terms of segmentation we've got
the plg kind of self- serve these are
think very small like could be like a
local Subway franchise it could be a dry
cleaner it could be a local gym
hiring not a huge amount of people every
year but coming through our SST our
website plg and then we're working to
upsell them from there we also though at
that for that segment we have a very
large Channel business as well I think
like Gusto they p providers gesto
pelocity where we're embedded in that
experience same for applicant tracking
systems like Greenhouse or H like
ripling it's a very big channel for us
in parallel to this self store so really
strong product Market fit cross segments
smvs all the way up through large
Enterprises and then set the cycle times
there like days you're you're like hey I
need to run this now could be minutes
but let me sign up online get it done
and it's either part of the experience
in your in in a partner or is it's doing
it straight through
Checker the in the midm Market
Commercial M Market segment thinking
like 30 days is the average cycle time
and deal sizes in the tens of thousands
of dollars typically and and then up
into Enterprise with Enterprise it could
be as long as a year sales cycle and
deal sizes and $100,000 and and above
then placing sorry placing yes it's a
key component we are usage
based and this was a key Focus for me
when I started is getting that focus on
consumption and revenue versus you're
not selling a
subscription very different from a sales
perspective from a compensation
perspective and just from a how we
monetize
perspective super
helpful just to summarize what comes to
mind for me in terms of the environment
that you joined when you joined a cro at
Checker if we're thinking about relating
to the category of startups this was a
mature and complex goto market
organization with hundreds of people and
multiple different customer acquisition
strategies around Channel product Le
growth sales Le growth and so you enter
at least using the framing of startups
this complex and mature goto market
organization and where I want to
initially spend time is your first
experience there you were in the cro
role for about a year and a half and
then you were promoted into a COO role
the thing that comes to mind for me is
you had to have just crushed it so let's
start at the very early days you come in
I I want to first talk about the process
that you went through for identifying
the areas of opportunity and then I want
to evolve to what were those areas of
opportunity
and how did we address them what was the
the process that you went through like
how did you discover where you should
first spend time in in the opportunities
to impr improve the business as fast as
possible yeah yeah I was very fortunate
in that the coming on Checker a lot of
things were going really well and I had
a very strong leadership team that I got
the benefit of inheriting at Checker and
so I I did a mix of a couple of things
for me it's really important to honor
the past when you started in a new
organization and and take time to really
understand why things are the way they
are so trying to find that balance of
not waiting too long to act and make
change but also really understanding the
why and and and how things are so I
spent a lot of time with the team and
and talk to you everyone of my directs
what's going well where do you need help
where are the Improvement areas and and
heard from them like one resounding
thing that came through was the product
and go to market feedback loop alignment
was not there and there needed to be
help to bridge that across the exec te
there were other things that I saw as I
talked to people as I started seeing the
Rhythm and the Cadence of the business
and putting that in place was just from
a data looking I look at data I'm very
data driven like looking at data what
are they what do they care about what
are they measuring and I saw some gaps I
one the first big thing that I spent
time on was that back to the point you
mentioned earlier Sam this is a
transactional business and usage based
and that needs to be managed very
differently than a typical subscription
SAS model and we earn Revenue when the
customer is using the product it's
versus a license base where you're as a
seller on the one hand and SAS product
you buy you sell this many seats or
licenses and the customer goes live then
you really like need can set it and
forget it for the following year at
least whereas here you you have to be
laser focused on making sure they are
going live adopting and using the
product as
intended so on that I I looked across
the board and said how do we first look
at comp plants and make sure that these
comp plants are tied to revenue and some
were to some extent some were not and so
made sure across the board that people
were aligned in the incentives their
incentives were aligned with what we
needed to do from company perspective
their lowest or smallest lowest segment
sales team was focused on activating
customers no no incentive un Revenue
whatsoever it's just like a volume based
incentive plan and so completely changed
that focus of that team move them to the
revenue Focus bringing value to the
customer and to Checker um the only
thing I that was did was bring that
revenue and focus into the entire
kadence of running the business and so
instead of just thinking about bookings
targets and bookings attainment which
was the all of the all the dashboards
all the reviews we bought brought
Revenue focus into every Cadence of our
go to market team and so that's our
weekly business reviews measuring it a
segment and the team level individual
level like bookings to revenue
conversion you could have a rep with the
million doll quota two reps like one
could be making like get like closing a
million and a half of bookings
but that's only generating 700k in
revenue and another could be closing
900k in bookings but generating 900k in
revenue or million in revenue and that
awareness is really important and was
not there and so we have been laser
focused and still a journey there's
still more we can do here but laser
focused on giving that visibility um and
then we looked at a lot of the processes
operationally and made sure that once
the deal is closed what are the steps
and all the handoffs and too many
handoffs in place there was not enough
sense of urgency getting the kickoff
meeting with the customer getting the
right implementations person and account
management customer success person
involved earlier and and just pulling
that through end to endend and tracking
it was a big Focus so that was probably
one of the biggest loow hanging fruit I
saw right away and had a big impact once
we were able to like get it measured get
it improved and and we've seen that
realization improve dramatic over the
last couple of
years you're speaking my
language I I wrote down notes in three
categories all of which it just like my
mind is racing with all of the things in
each of these categories that we were
able to take advantage of during my
tenure at different companies the
categories are so you mentioned
something around like studied data and
identified Trends so
that is I categorize this one oftentimes
as
revops and I have just received as as
I've talked about probably multiple
times on this uh show the impact that
sophisticated revops has had
on my success and the success of the
organizations that uh I've worked with
cannot be understated and I I want to go
deeper on each of these categories but
just framing them
before we do so one is this stutter
studying data understanding Trends
Trends in the business and leveraging
again this category that I would put
with thops the second thing that I wrote
down is around
incentives and the Charlie Monger quote
show me the incentive I'll show you the
outcome I
have just realized huge benefits and
nearly immediate benefits by changing
incentives to be more appropriate to
drive to the outcome so I want to go a
layer deeper on what that meant for you
a checker and then the last one that I
wrote down is around the customer
experience and you talked about how
customers are onboarded who they're
interacting with so I think each of
these three
categories resonate with me and then
let's go a layer deeper on each so maybe
starting on the data what were some of
the trends that you identified as areas
of opportunity and then maybe
specifically if you have any stories or
things that you recall around what you
did tactically to change those yeah the
first two come to mind I think one um on
the revenue realization front and the
other on arpu really the kind of the
equivalent at checker on the first
Revenue realization we saw
that the bookings to revenue conversion
was not it needed to be and I think the
first the first conclusion is oh the
customers aren't ramping as as expected
that was not the case as we dug into it
we saw a lot of reps were over booking
deals because there was this pressure to
just hit this bookings quota so we were
way over booking deals in many instances
and there was operational pieces from a
customer experience that we could do to
improve and we it's hard to measure this
right so for those of you who do have
the CES based business I've talked to
dozens and dozens of people on this
there's a lot of different approaches
but you need to have a leading indicator
of how this is
trending is it you don't really see the
full effect for a full year we measure
month to booking to revenue conversion
what was the expected revenue and we set
a goal of 10% so 10% we should be seeing
10% of the bookings realized Within by
month to and it was at like four and we
pushed and and now it's at 12 um but it
was measuring this every single deal for
the larger deals every segment every
team uh and that was something we we
continue to look at and we look at the
the cohorted curves across every
month the other was there was no
visibility whatsoever this wasn't a
tread it just lack of data there was no
visibility into what in a sess license
space model I focused on being arpu
average revenue per user it in chucker
we it's not a licensed based model but
average revenue per screen that the
customer is running it it's obviously
it's different than ASP which average
deal size which is based on the customer
size that's important but if you look at
all customers independent of size how
much revenue are you getting per user
per transaction they're running on the
platform and that then becomes the job
of everyone across the go to market
organization and so for me a checker
first me to like figure out what was
that metric and we coined average
revenue per report run that's how many
reports how many hires is this customer
doing and how much revenue are we
getting per
higher and then there a lot of lever
impact it now there's pricing and
packaging there is discounts um are we
giving too much discounts and I think we
saw that we were discounting often
unnecessarily given where our win rates
were which were quite strong and then
the other is just the complete like
realization for the customer of all the
products we have at our disposal like
often the revenue the Reps just trying
to get a deal Clos like we'll figure out
the upsell later it's no especially if
you look at win rates being decently
High you want to you know make sure
we're getting a good go at all the
products at the initial sale um and so
we have needing F improve that over the
like every quarter based on Focus from
marketing from even bdrs sdrs sales and
then our csms are have a metric on this
as well we're measuring it throughout
the renewal cycle and so that's
something that across the company we've
used and brought into
focus is if you don't like to your point
there's incentives and there's
measurement if you're not measuring it
and not looking at it then there's not
really an explicit
Focus yeah the super helpful examples
all reciprocate with a a couple that
come to mind for
me and you just said something that
resonated which
is if you're Flying Blind and you're not
measuring these things you just never
know the opportunity that exists exactly
and a couple interesting ones that come
to mind for me and hopefully for the
audience Checker's business is unique
and that the first example that you
provided where it's a usage-based
business may not be appable to a
traditional SAS business but hopefully
what you're able to do is pattern match
some of these examples to things that
are directly applicable to your business
when I was at
zenitz which we made money as a health
insurance broker and we were licensed in
all 50 states so we sold to anybody in
the United States but there was Heavy
influence state by state because of the
nature of health insurance where the
broker commissions are regulated by the
state and the price of health insurance
is regulated by the state there's other
dynamics that are sort of State specific
as well um and for many months if not uh
a year plus we're like lying blind in
terms of just treating all uh companies
regardless of where they were located as
equal all opportunities being equal and
targeting these
companies the same and we like you but
for a different role we brought in a
really senior
revops leader and one of the first
things that he did was he came to me
about two weeks in and said we should
stop selling in these like 15 to 20
States
tomorrow because the average price of
health insurance in these states is X
the average price in the remaining
States is y it's almost 3x the cost the
commission rates in these states again X
and Y and then even more so our
conversion rates there were extreme
examples we had given like a thousand
demos and had two customers in certain
States and it was just like we have this
huge Tam we should just shift our Focus
to acquiring demos and opportunities in
these states and look what happens to
revenue and I think like in the same
category of revops understanding data
running reports through different cuts
that are relevant to your business
whether it's go or industry or Persona
and then orienting the business around
the opportunities that have the highest
likelihood of converting the highest
likelihood of successful customers and
generating the most Revenue um uh I I
can't positively reinforce that concept
enough let's move on to incentives which
um some of which you mentioned could be
related or at least segue into
incentives as well I'd love to
understand what were what was something
that you discovered where incentives
were misaligned how did you discover it
what change did you to make make and
then what was the outcome of that change
for the incentive
change yeah there's
several I talked about the the SNB team
and they were incented on logos versus
um Revenue another one was for the
majority of our sales team we had a
pretty large incentive on closing an
upfront commit which can be very Valu
did that and and prior roles as well
what I like what you described as book
sorry to interrupt this is what you
described as bookings I think previously
yeah and for the audience in a usage
based business you want to forecast out
what you believe the revenue is going to
be and when you described this Delta
what comes to mind to me is we were over
forecasting we were like over promising
and underd delivering when we closed a
deal exactly yeah so yeah you have to
predict out how much are they going to
use how many hires for our scenario for
other consumptive businesses different
but how much do I think they're going to
use and therefore contract with the
customer on that amount and get a
discount based on the expected deal size
but then often a checker we also layer
in a commit component which makes sense
this is what you think you're going to
do we're going to put a committee there
you have to do at least
this which which is done and Sass more
often get up get trickier and what this
was doing was incenting reps to heavily
discount to get this commit he customer
really want to commit but let me
discount this really heavily to get the
customer to commit
contractually and what we started seeing
was either they were you know
overbooking the deal
or our retention rates are incredibly
strong at Checker and the product's
Fantastic our grr is high 90s Max you
can get grr is 100% what amount of your
your Revenue are you retaining and they
were unnecessary
giving these major discounts to get this
committed contract with a customer
because we were incenting it because
there was a huge upfront commission
component and like you said what you
incent you get and so the the reps are
doing exactly the right thing but we
were over incenting it so we we took
that we took that specific component out
and we're spiffing on different things
that we do want to see more of and we're
tying the actual bulk of the
compensation more to revenue realization
which is better for the customer the ly
with Checker what I love to do is like
how do we align the rep's incentives to
the success of the company and then make
them as a successful as possible I want
them to be blowing out their number and
where we're all celebrating not blowing
out their number where it actually was
this really good for the company and too
often I think that happens unknowingly
by putting the wrong incentives in
place both of the things that you
mentioned I can relate to and then I
I'll put them in a category and give a
version of my own as well you mentioned
SMB reps were incentivized on logos and
not Revenue so that means you get for
folks that are listening just like
credit for an activation for lack of a
better and it doesn't matter how much
revenue that customer generates and then
the second example that you gave was we
were and were you paying out on bookings
like the quot was based around bookings
was also commission based around
bookings or actual Revenue at that point
there already been a moved a move away
from bookings based comp thankfully but
it was like half at that point it was
half okay got makes sense um and low and
behold the outcome is we have inflated
bookings because that's what we
celebrated when somebody closed a deal
we probably had the bookings number up
there and that's what we felt like was
revenue and in practice it actually
wasn't both of these I think you're in
the category of non-revenue incentives
that evolved to it sounds like becoming
Revenue incentives and I I mentioned
that I can
relate at I'm going to use actually an
SDR
example it Rex as I think probably the
majority of SDR incentive plans are
structured
around some leading indicator to revenue
like opportunity creation
and the thinking is something like once
the meeting is held and maybe
opportunity is created the SDR has no
control over what happens Beyond at that
point in time and so they're doing their
job if they scheduling demos and
creating opportunities with qualified
customers and at brex we noted again
like back in this previous category of
understanding the data a trend that we
noticed was that
the AE sourced opportunities converted
at a significantly higher rate to
customers and they generated far more
Revenue so the ACV of AE sourced
outbound opportunities was significantly
almost exponentially higher than the SDR
sourc opportunities and when we dug a
little bit deeper to understand it all
went back to who they were
targeting and the ads were incentivized
to target the people that were most lik
to convert and that were most likely to
spend a lot generate a lot of Revenue
because that is what they were
compensated on and the sdrs weren't they
were incentivized to um reach out to
people who would take a call and so we
actually made the shift to incentivizing
sdrs to closed Revenue their second
order influences of doing something like
that but the lesson for me I think in in
that example is something like
especially for the teams often times
being SDR in marketing that are oriented
around top of funnel metrics I would go
through the thought exercise of what
does it look like if we Orient these
teams more around closed revenue and
what are the like gives and takes in
doing something like that and look it
doesn't mean that you stop hearing about
how many opportunities are being created
or how many meetings are being scheduled
it just means that's a leading indicator
that you are managing the team towards
and not necessarily compensating them
on so again I love your examples because
I can relate to them so much and we
actually tried this we just shifted to
the same thing for ours we call them
bdrs for
outbound sdrs to give a component of the
comp based on closed closed one as well
there's some push back we're still
saying does it work but it's that same
thing it's like how do you get the right
incentives to do the right behavior and
marketing we're also working on our
self- served business not to optimize
all our sem spend for activations but
for Revenue it's a journey to get there
but it's absolutely the right way to
spend the investment throughout the
entire
funel awesome let's move on to the third
but the third one that you mentioned was
around the customer experience so I
would love to
learn the things that you recogn ized
early on whether it's in the trends that
you're learning from data or just
talking to customers but what did you
recognize as an opportunity to improve
the customer experience and and what did
you do from
there yeah I think that there's probably
two two buckets of things to could talk
about the first is the if it's relating
to what I talked about earlier so I
could cover this briefly but if the rep
isn't cented on book gings they're
probably not going to be as deeply
andrain and really understanding is this
solution do I work the way we need to
have this customer go live and be
successful and generate usage which then
generates Revenue with then then
generates my commission and so we've
really oriented that a deal especially
as we're investing heavily in Enterprise
we have a big goal on new logos
closed and on Revenue but also Implement
successful
implementations and making sure that the
pre-sales team and their Solutions
Engineers have signed off on something
before it closes and they're going very
deep because we were seeing not only if
you're overbooking a deal that's not
only bad for the company it also can be
bad for the customer they're expecting
more and or from or prod their product
gaps and and then they go to go live and
it's not working so there's been a major
focus on that and it's been incredible
to see like when you rally the teams on
this and get everyone on the same page
how it can work and and and conversely
how a poorly can go that's not
happening the other piece is on our
product feedback loop and in the
engagement with the customer I talked to
many customers when I join and ongoing
and the feedback is very strong on where
we are today but as I talk to more my
customers like there's so much
opportunity for upsell here there's so
much loow hanging fruit and
the feedback loop was just not getting
to our product and Engineering teams and
like getting these things on the road
map
and we invested heavily in the across
the company to have our we have a new
Chief product officer but he's meeting
with customers day in and day out we've
got an adopted customer program for
engineers and product teams so not only
are we solving customer pain points and
problems that always do come up but more
importantly like building the road mapap
for this next
opportunity for growth with these
customers and and upsell and and beyond
that was absolutely missing and and
especially if you're going big in
Enterprise like that has to be
completely interlocked and if you don't
have that you will absolutely
fail it's awesome for those that are
listening for both exceptional examples
which
with very important takeaways where my
mind went was similar to the first
example that you gave and then I'll try
and package up the second example just
in terms of what I think my takeaway
would be
but where you described but what the
thing that I heard from you was
something oriented
around the onboarding and implementation
of
customers and we had this experience at
brex and I imagine the same thing is
relatively true at um most companies
where we could actually predict things
like expansion
renewals for brex it was card spin so
how much revenue a customer would
generate by their the actions that they
took very early on as a customer and for
us it was like the first 30
days and we didn't recognize this until
something like 12 or 18 months into the
business and for brex that was like tens
of thousands of customers so because we
move very quickly a relatively mature
business and I think the the process
that we went through that I think many
companies do and I would now say is
probably wrong we started with
salespeople that were focusing on new
customer acquisition and then we hired
like some version of CSM account manager
or something like they were focused on
customers after they closed and we would
have the same person serving customers
right after they signed up that was
serving customers that were 6 12 months
into their Journey on
brex and what we should have done and
what we evolved to was being
hyperfocused on the initial experience
that the customer had with brex um you
only get one chance at a first
impression and I think if you
successfully onboard customers
um it solves for so many potential
problems that could come up down the
line and and just far less support needs
of customers as they mature with you as
a business higher renewal rates and so
much more so that's the thing that comes
to mind to me for me on the first one
that you mentioned and then the second
thing that you mentioned the takeaway is
something like generally companies don't
spend enough time with their customers
and this is true Beyond just the
customer facing teams you talked about
you have a new Chief product
officer it's something like it at the
founder and at the executive and at the
product and Engineering level there's no
higher Roi than time spent learning from
your customers something like
that and so again just each of the
examples that you're providing
resonate so well with me and I think for
the folks that are listening um the two
of us we we had like very little agenda
coming into this call and we're both
gravitating towards the exact same
things and so that's probably a pretty
strong signal
that these things are likely to be
happening in your business or likely
areas of opportunity in your business
yeah and for the folks the customer
facing folks on the call like that
insight you're getting from day in and
day out talking to customers is gold for
the company and know if there's not a
standardized way of capturing that like
getting that is so important and it's on
the leadership of the the company to to
dig in and get it and spend as much time
with customers as possible then also
like getting that feedback from the
team okay I'm going to quickly
recap because there are so many think
takeaways that I'm very passionate about
did you've organically touched on
Lindsay we went into three categories
the first one is around when you joined
a checker you really studied the data
and understood some Trends in the
business and so I I think what that
means is um from as early stage as you
can just start running cuts of data
around things like conversion rates by
anything that you think is influential
in your business Geo Persona industry
sub Industry Source of opportunity not
all opportunities are created equal and
and so just really understanding where
your customers and where your revenue is
coming from and then mapping that back
and leveraging that information to to
make decisions and invest in what is
ultimately generating revenue and happy
customers for your business the second
thing was around incentives and I think
the takeaway for me from hearing your
comments Lindsay and then marrying those
with my experience
is Maybe default to incentivizing
revenue and it may make sense to
incentivize teams on uh things other
than Revenue but if you default there
and then maybe try and make an argument
for why it makes more sense I I think
that's that's where I would
start if I'm building incentives for the
first time or rethinking incentives and
then the third category was around
customer experience and I think the two
takeaways
there invest early and
overinvestment setting customers up for
success and really specialize in that
time period try and identify the things
that you would like customers to
accomplish during their first um
experience with your product
and track those things ensure they are
accomplishing those things and then the
second one is
the ROI on spending time with customers
and learning from them uh is incredibly
high so many things that that we talked
through and we could have gone so much
longer I think we had more topics but in
the interest of time let's stop there
Lindsay I think this was an incredible
episode thank you so much for joining
and sharing your learnings with the
audience thank you so much Sam yeah you
summarized it get the data know the data
and then obsess over your customer and
their experience thank you so awesome
thank you so much see you all back here
sometime soon and it's saster annual
coming up thanks Lindy thank